# 带KeyDB的HAProxy配置

作为参考，这里有一个到HAproxy v1.8配置手册的链接

HAproxy可以在这里用作高可用性的反向代理负载平衡器。最新版本在使用新配置或更改的配置更新HAproxy时具有无缝重新加载功能，不会影响连接。

有关将写入主实例的传统设置，请参见haproxy.cfg示例。使用active replica选项，其中我们有两个主服务器，设置类似，但是您可能需要考虑选择balance作为"first"，或者将其中一个服务器定义为"backup"。

HAproxy执行健康检查以确定在何处引导流量并保持高可用性。如果您希望保持负载平衡器的高可用性（冗余），请考虑使用keepalived。
您还可以编写自己的heartbeat服务器，以便在服务器停机时重新关联aws弹性IP地址。Keepalived对于单代理负载平衡器冗余来说很常见。

性能如果遇到性能问题，请考虑增加服务器（后端）以及默认和全局部分的maxconn。相信default默认是2000。
如果仍然存在性能问题，请在高负载期间检查cpu使用情况，以找到瓶颈。HAproxy可以运行多个线程，这可能需要配置。

    global
        log /dev/log    local0
        log /dev/log    local1 notice
        chroot /var/lib/haproxy
        stats socket /run/haproxy/admin.sock mode 660 level admin expose-fd listeners
        stats timeout 30s
        user haproxy
        group haproxy
        daemon
    
        # The lines below enable multithreading. This should correlate to number of threads available you want to use.
        nbproc 1
        nbthread 4
        cpu-map auto:1/1-4 0-3
    
        # Default SSL material locations
        ca-base /etc/ssl/certs
        crt-base /etc/ssl/private
    
        # Default ciphers to use on SSL-enabled listening sockets.
        # For more information, see ciphers(1SSL). This list is from:
        #  https://hynek.me/articles/hardening-your-web-servers-ssl-ciphers/
        # An alternative list with additional directives can be obtained from
        #  https://mozilla.github.io/server-side-tls/ssl-config-generator/?server=haproxy
        ssl-default-bind-ciphers ECDH+AESGCM:DH+AESGCM:ECDH+AES256:DH+AES256:ECDH+AES128:DH+AES:RSA+AESGCM:RSA+AES:!aNULL:!MD5:!DSS
        ssl-default-bind-options no-sslv3
            maxconn 40000
    
    defaults
        log global
        mode    http
        option  httplog
        option  dontlognull
            timeout connect 5000
            timeout client  50000
            timeout server  50000
        errorfile 400 /etc/haproxy/errors/400.http
        errorfile 403 /etc/haproxy/errors/403.http
        errorfile 408 /etc/haproxy/errors/408.http
        errorfile 500 /etc/haproxy/errors/500.http
        errorfile 502 /etc/haproxy/errors/502.http
        errorfile 503 /etc/haproxy/errors/503.http
        errorfile 504 /etc/haproxy/errors/504.http
    
    # Below is a common setup for HAproxy. In this example we are connecting to 2 instances with a shared port for keydb-cli
    # Client connects to port 6380 and is redirected to one of the two nodes based on setup and checks.
    #
    # For active-replica support you will have 2 masters that are replicas of eachother with data syncing. 
    # No need for a sentinel node as there is no slave that needs to be promoted to master. 
    # HAproxy will check if one instance goes down and write to the other node. This is done with the health checks 
    # Default config for balance is roundrobin. If you have preference for which server is primary, you can place the
    # word "backup" beside the server ip address. That way HA will send traffic to 'not-backup' instance unless it is unreachable.
    # You can also consider adding weights to the end of the server line. Weights are expressed as "weight 50%" combining to 100% or otherwise between 1 and 256 if no % sign
    # Choosing "balance first" will use the first connected instance and only start using the second if maxconn is exceeded.
    # If you have a password you will have to include it here and set the same for both nodes.
    
    # Note that in a common master-replica setup you will "expect string role:master" to vaildate you are only sending traffic to the healthy master
    # With Active-rep, you will "expect string role:acitve-replica" as that is the role when in active-rep mode. Understanding this concept of getting data and
    # health checking you can probe for other info if needed.
    
    listen mykeydb 
        bind *:6380
        maxconn 40000 
        mode tcp
        balance first
        option tcplog
        option tcp-check
        #uncomment these lines if you have basic auth
        #tcp-check send AUTH\ yourpassword\r\n
        #tcp-check expect +OK
        tcp-check send PING\r\n
        tcp-check expect string +PONG
        tcp-check send info\ replication\r\n
        tcp-check expect string role:master
        tcp-check send QUIT\r\n
        tcp-check expect string +OK
        server keydb3 172.19.0.3:6379 maxconn 20000 check inter 1s
        server keydb2 172.19.0.2:6379 maxconn 20000 check inter 1s
    
    # Sending PING is one health check to make sure server is active. Retrieving the replication info is to find if the node is
    # a master. If not master then dont write to it. This prevents trying to write to a replica instance.
    # The QUIT command prevents unwanted logging info every time this is run
    
    # A common master-slave HAproxy setup does not need to include a "balance" option or "backup" as only the master
    # will see incoming traffic (through checks). If you have sentinel nodes they will automatically promote the slave to master at which
    # time the checks will redirect traffic there.
